+Slime Volleyball

+Kill Cutie

-Bombulum - use the pendulum to push bombs off their respective "poles" befor they blow up. Gravity is from the center in all directions. "Poles" are elevators that rise "up" towards the center. "Gravity" is directly affected by the accelerometer.

-Ping pong racket. Try to bounce the ball on the racket without dropping it on the floor.

.Helicopter Gravity Force 2D/3D - steer using accelerometer, add a "calibrate" button somewhere. Cam behind or behind on one side.

Knobbelen

Crazy hoArse - mad, galloping horse using rigging+skinning. Spinning eyes, flailing limbs, strange obstacles. Make it look EXTREMELY organic!

Cyber Sled re-make. Buy hull, engine, primary and secondary weapons. Single player, one on one. And perhaps network?

Fleeing animal made up by particles and can shape-shift. Tiger to run across trees, cliffs; horse to run across plains and mountains; bird to span gaps. Run during night. Full moon.

Sandbox: place things in the world, make them go.
 - Completed missions are things like "scored a goal", "killed the bus" or "demolished the house" or "blew up the convoy",
 - Free play mode.
 - Place stones, cars, hovercraft, houses.
 - Activate engines at certain times.
 - Place travel route for vehicle.
 - Perhaps it should be: play as an alien, using a flying saucer?
 - Map-like controls: pinch zoom, move stuff, rotate stuff.
 - Play, pause, stop functionality. Can play, pause, change some, play some more.
 - Possible to interact during play.
 - (Multi player?)
 - Save/upload maps.
 - Download maps.
 - WOW!

Make your contraption move the longest/fastest. Build and race, timelapsed multiplayer.

Create your own game, share with friends. Construct basic physics, add looks and simple rules.

Tank vs. Tank, similar to the Cyber Sled remake.

Ball-into-hole using basic building blocks. Programming (x,y,z, rotation)? Placement? Time contraint? Score higher on lower time? Fewer programming lines? How to separate it from the 2D ballgame I played before? Many balls? Flowing through the start point? YEAH!

Helicopter flying and shooting.

Kill the Commies! Use your stationed grenade launcher to take out all the red cars driving in and out of town. Have fun with physics! This could really rock!!! All buildings, the land and the other commuters are beige. They all travel on highways in and out of the city. Bridges, too. You can monitor 1, 2 or 3 roads on different levels. Avoid killing Americans. Different ammo, nuke for instance. Air strike?

Getaway - flee from tanks (and perhaps other military craft) which try to blow you out of orbit.

Cute game with nice graphics! Anything to learn!

Horse game! Inspiration: Da Win3.11 horse mouse cursor!

Flocking game. School of fish? Birds? Something! The prototype should be fun without trying, so everything else should be a bonus.

Scare-crow Soccer / Soccer for Dummies - a rag-doll, you, is the goal-keeper; the computer does the shooting.

UFO Counter - Saucers come and land, and ET's emegerge. Take 'em out before they blow up planet Earth!

Crazy game using genitals as obstacles.

Sliding racing game. Hovercraft? Bob sleigh? Something of the kind...

Fork lift puzzle game - move all the boxes to the right locations.

Construction vehicle game - fork lift, front loader, excavator... Build, move and demolish!

Build your own vehicle - place and rotate: body, wheels, cranes, brake lights... Specify joints, engines (engine powers?, speeds?). First object is suspended in mid-air, but attached objects become "live" immediately when dragged to the scene. Test drive when done!

Physical programming game - give instructions such as "push left 10" and "pop". Try to hit something? Use car, hovercraft, spaceship...

Robo Arm - optimize a movement scheme to make the robot pick something up and move it to a designated area. Definition of done = object colliding with trigger and object velocity <= threshold.

Space ship flight. Fly though predefined map, steer using swipe left/right/up/down? Or accelerometer? Fly close to ground, to give impression of moving VERY fast.

MMO space flight. Ships parks in "bee hives", LoD the whole world. Fly, shoot. Guild vs. guild.

Gothenburg game - could be stopping foreign power invasion, alien space invasion, crime fighting/SWAT, on a massive scale with real maps! Premiere on a large theatre!

Single player vehicle simulation puzzle. Sorta like light-Bot, but in more dimentsions and with vehicles. The steering is a chart with different input (at interval times) and a slider next to each which determins "how much". Also add a road sign selector at the top of the chart (iPhone-like slider left/right?) where you can pick your vechile. Start/stop button. Done!

Playing a Matrix-style octopus! Flying quickly, swirling arms, landing hard, climbing and flying away again.

Playing a presentation. Don't know how or why, but I'm on to something.

Create an Early Warning System utilizing The Random Generator EGGS!

A game in which a server is also a client listening to other servers, and where the information on the game spreads throughout the nodes... Perhaps area based? Algo might also use a way to spread IRL geographical coordinates as world server coordinates.

Soap bubble game? Produce and catch 'em all.

Something inflatable... For instance spheres... Mm... something!

Car Jumpin'

Make a game with speech controls, for instance using http://www.politepix.com/openears/.
